Release Notes for WebView2 119 Prerelease SDK (#2838)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/release-notes.md

<!-- end of top matter -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## 1.0.2098-prerelease

Author: todo: finalize

* `CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration` Class
    * [CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration.AllowedOrigins Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2customschemeregistration?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#allowedorigins)
    * [CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration.SchemeName Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2customschemeregistration?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#schemename)
* `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions` Class
    * [CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.CustomSchemeRegistrations Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environmentoptions?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#customschemeregistrations)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

n/a; WinRT only

---

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
* Added the Frame Process Info API, enabling host applications to identify which processes are for each WebView2 control, to assess the performance impact of WebView2 on the application and on the user's device.

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

> <!-- todo: add for .NET, like for Win32?

Author: @victorhuangwq @peiche-jessica 
Should .NET tab contain these links, like Win32 has?
* `CoreWebView2Environment` Class
    * [CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessExtendedInfos Method]()
* [CoreWebView2FrameInfo Class]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.ParentFrameInfo Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameId Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameKind Property]()

When API Ref PR exists,
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/webview2-win32-reference/pulls
i can investigate

Author: added

* `CoreWebView2Environment` Class
    * [CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessExtendedInfos Method]()
* [CoreWebView2FrameInfo Class]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.ParentFrameInfo Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameId Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameKind Property]()
-->
* `CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo` Class
    * [CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo.AssociatedFrameInfos Property](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processextendedinfo.associatedframeinfos?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true)
    * [CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo.ProcessInfo Property](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processextendedinfo.processinfo?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

> <!-- todo: add for WinRT, like for Win32?

Author: @victorhuangwq @peiche-jessica 
Should WinRT tab contain these links, like Win32 has?
* `CoreWebView2Environment` Class
    * [CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessExtendedInfos Method]()
* [CoreWebView2FrameInfo Class]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.ParentFrameInfo Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameId Property]()
    * [CoreWebView2FrameInfo.FrameKind Property]()

When API Ref PR exists,
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/webview2-winrt-reference/pulls
i can investigate

Author: added

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
* For WinRT, options have been added to manage custom scheme registration when creating a `CoreWebView2Environment`:

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

n/a; WinRT only

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* `CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration` Class
    * [CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration.AllowedOrigins Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2customschemeregistration?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#allowedorigins)
    * [CoreWebView2CustomSchemeRegistration.SchemeName Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2customschemeregistration?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#schemename)
* `CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions` Class
    * [CoreWebView2EnvironmentOptions.CustomSchemeRegistrations Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environmentoptions?view=webview2-winrt-1.0.2106-prerelease&preserve-view=true#customschemeregistrations)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

n/a; WinRT only

---

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> * The `GetProcessExtendedInfo` API provides a snapshot collection of all actively running frames in the associated renderer process. This provides the granularity needed for the host application to know which part of WebView2 is consuming resources, such as memory or CPU usage.

Author: ```suggestion
* The `Frame Process Info` API provides a snapshot collection of all actively running frames in the associated renderer process. This provides the granularity needed for the host application to know which part of WebView2 is consuming resources, such as memory or CPU usage.
```
@victorhuangwq @peiche-jessica - change name of broad API?
Not sure if we should call it "the GetProcessExtendedInfo API", given that the .NET tab & WinRT tab currently don't list any API type or member called GetProcessExtendedInfo(s).  Seems like either those tabs should add those API Ref links that only Win32 lists (including CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessExtendedInfos), or, don't call it "the GetProcessExtendedInfo API".

.NET tab just lists the following; no word "get":
* CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo
   * CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo.AssociatedFrameInfos
   * CoreWebView2ProcessExtendedInfo.ProcessInfo

 Rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/release-notes?branch=pr-en-us-2838&tabs=win32cpp#experimental-features

Author: changed to F P I
